>> Kent C. Dodds: Then we're
gonna get into configuring Jest.
So you can let your fingers rest for
a little bit, because this part is
pretty much just, watch the show and
interrupt me as you have questions.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and reset --hard,
just so I'm in a clean state.
Don't have any surprises, hopefully.
And you can try to follow along if you
want, if that's something you're into,
but I'm probably gonna go too fast for
you to follow along.
So we are gonna be in this other
directory, configuration > calculator.
There's a calculator and
calculator solution.
So later you can check out the solution
if you wanna reference what's going on.
Or obviously you can watch the video
later, the recording later as well.
So we've got a pretty
simple application here.
The reason that we're not setting up our
actual full application is because it's
It's a fair bit more complex
mostly just for workshop purposes.
So it's not really totally realistic as
far as the configuration is concerned.
So we're gonna CD into the other
directory configuration calculator
and inside of here let's go ahead and
start our server.
So we're using webpack dev server for
development and we've got a build and
we've got this local server.
It's configured with Babel and
all this stuff that you'd find
in normal React application.
So we'll run NPM, run dev and
that will start us up on
localhost 8080 oops, localhost:8080.
And here's a fun little
calculator that was created
by Michael Jackson React Training
friendly person.
This is a link to the original code
pen that he used to create this thing.
So I modified it slightly but
it's pretty cool.
You can actually type in 4 x 3 is 12, and
it does math properly,
which is always good.
Computers are pretty good at that.
It even has this automatic shrinking
function, which is kinda handy.
So, yeah,
it's a pretty simple application, but
it serves really good purpose for us and
that's what we're going to be
configuring for our tests.
So, let's see.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
get this configured to start testing.
So we're gonna MPM Install
has a dev dependency Jest.
And this is one of my
favorite things about Jest,
is it's taking so long to install
because it has tons of stuff.
Because I don't have to install a million
things individually just to get my test
working.
So it comes with a whole bunch of stuff.
And the features that just comes
with out of the box are just unreal.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
add a test script.
Woops, let's make sure that my
keys are in the right spot.
Are my fingers on the right keys?
And that is my test script,
which is called Jest.
And just to- I think I messed it up,
but in the depth dependencies,
it should have Jest in here somewhere.
It is alphabetical, so
it will be Jest and it was that, okay.
So that's the current state of things.
We install it.
We add the script for Jest.
And then if I run the test MPMT for
short then it's gonna say
hey I didn't find any tests.
So we're going to be writing tests later,
for now,
I'm just gonna copy over Some tests.
So we'll copy this over, duplicate this,
put it in the calculator and
we'll take a look at that test.
Okay, so this utilgetformattedvalue,
this is just JavaScript stuff.
It doesn't need It doesn't
even need the dom.
It doesn't, it's not reacting.
And so with this now in place we're
following the built in convention.
So if you look at this error message here,
it has a built in test match.
And so it'll match any file
that matches this glob.
So anything that's inside of
a test directory at any depth.
With the .js and optionally x.
I was found the jsx extension
to be totally weird.
If that's what you do,
I don't know why you do that.
But feel free to continue
doing that if you want to.
But you'd also matches any
file that has .spec.test.js X.
And then it ignores
anything in node modules.
So that's the default configuration for
those.
I like putting things in the double
underscore test directory because I
used to colocate it and have a utils.test
and then my directories just got enormous.
It was hard to tell what was a test and
what wasn't, so
I put everything in a test directory close
by, right next to the file it's testing.
And that made it a lot
easier to manage there.
So, with that, we just copied a test over,
now we can run npm t to run our test again
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
we're getting our first error,
so huray, it found our test.
We've got a problem, and
it's saying unexpected token import.
So this is something that you're
gonna come across in normal,
real world Applications that
are using Webpack and Babel.
Because your Babel configuration should be
set to transpile everything except for
imports.
Who knows why?
Why should you not transpile imports
when you're using Webpack, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz there's more
than onentax supported by
Webpack
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yes,
because Webpack supports ES modules.
And the reason that webpack supports ES
modules is so it can do tree shaking.
It enables it to skip out
entirely on some imports,
which will remove that dead code and
our bundles are much smaller.
And so if you look in here,
if your babelrc does not look something
like this in your Webpack project,
then you are missing out on tree shaking,
you should change it.
You need to specify for
Babel preset env modules is false.
But this is why our tests are failing
because Jest actually picks up this
babelrc automatically and
applies it to all of our tests.
The problem is we´re saying, hey don´t
transpile the modules and so after
Babel is done with it, Jest looks at it
and says, wait what is this import thing?
So because of that we need to
differentiate between whether this
is happening in our tests or not.
And so I´m gonna scroll down just to copy
this because I don't want it ticked off.
But by default, Jest will set
the node environment to be test,
when it's being run and so
you can determine that inside of here.
One thing I failed to mention is this
handy little trick with the Babel RC.
Your Babel RC is probably just a JSON
file, so I made it a JavaScript file.
Because, in the package JSON here, I have
Babel configured in the package JSON.
That specifies a preset that
points to the JavaScript file.
And now it's like magic, I can have that.
In Babel 7,
this actually will be valid configuration.
You won't need the package.json stuff
anymore, so that would be cool.
Yeah, but for right now,
if you want to write your babelrc
as a JavaScript module you can do
this dynamic stuff, then use presets.
Babble also has the support for this ENV
thing, which is very confusing and so
I never use it.
So this is what I do instead.
Okay, so if we are in test,
yeah, so we'll say modules.
So if we're in tests, then we want to be
CJS, otherwise, we want it to be false.
Let me make sure that's right,
or CommonJS, yeah.
CommonJS is the default module system.
So, that will preset
your V during the test,
will actually transpile our
ES modules to commonJS,.
And then JS will be able
to understand that.
And I have a mistake.
Sometimes I don't know how to program but
I figure it out eventually.
Okay, so with that change let's
run the test again, and it works.
Yay, we got our first test running.
That's pretty nifty and
you know it's kinda cool cuz we didn't
actually have to configure Jest at all.
We had to do some stuff with Babel but
this is literally our test script and
our configuration just with Jest.
Yeah I just think that's
the coolest thing.